Fully clean up quick start (#95)
laminas/laminas-mvc: docs/book/quick-start.md

# Quick Start

In this example, `/hello/world?message=welcome` will display a page containing the message provided through the URL.
This requires several steps:

- Create a controller to obtain the message from the URL, and pass it as a variable to the view
- Create a view to display a page containing the message
- Create a route to match the URL to the controller

> 

Author: @froschdesign Like this?

```suggestion

Throughout this example, we will work in the `Application` module of the skeleton. The relevant files are located under `module/Application`.

```

## Install the Laminas MVC Skeleton Application

> The recommended way to get started is to install the skeleton application via Composer.

Author: @Xerkus @froschdesign Yay or nay?

```suggestion
To get started, install the skeleton application via Composer.
```

Reviewer: Go! 👍

# Quick Start

In this example, `/hello/world?message=welcome` will display a page containing the message provided through the URL.
This requires several steps:

- Create a controller to obtain the message from the URL, and pass it as a variable to the view
- Create a view to display a page containing the message
- Create a route to match the URL to the controller

## Install the Laminas MVC Skeleton Application

> An easy way to get started is to install the skeleton application via Composer.

Reviewer 2: Pretty sure I can remember that I've somewhere read that the word "easy" is to be avoided as just because it is easy for the writer of this message does not mean it is easy for the reader. But thats just a single sidenote here.
Overall, good improvement. Thanks!

Reviewer: The word "easy" also bothers me here. Maybe:
```suggestion
The recommended way to get started is to install the skeleton application via Composer.
```

Reviewer 3: It is no longer a recommended way but instead it is required way. We no longer provide laminas-loader rules nor we endorse its usage.

Also, generally, any mentions of setting up autoloader rules via `Module::getAutoloaderConfig()` config should be removed and replaced with instructions for composer. 
Module manager autoloader is not registered by skeleton [laminas/laminas-mvc-skeleton /config/application.config.php#L15-L16](https://github.com/laminas/laminas-mvc-skeleton/blob/3b83a32d280854ceb4f7602cdf37d2ba241a0115/config/application.config.php#L15-L16) and Application module provided by skeleton does not provide autoloader config.

Reviewer: > We no longer provide laminas-loader rules nor we endorse its usage.

That's not the point I was trying to make. You are right, all the old stuff has to go and must not appear in the documentation at all!
But we should not write that it is the "required way", because that sounds a bit negative.

Reviewer 3: I was thinking along dropping "The recommended" part entirely, since it implies there is another way and we do not really support non-composer installations anymore.

Something more assertive. 
```md
Before creating the application ensure the requirements:

- Install PHP 7.4 or newer
- php extensions needed for skeleton install?
- [Install Composer 2.0 or newer](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md#installation-linux-unix-osx).
```

Author: Yes, here: https://github.com/orgs/laminas/teams/documentation/discussions/1
However, I thought that we needed to avoid "easiest", not "easy". I don't think that it makes sense to avoid words such as "easy" or "good", but it makes sense to avoid "easiest", "best" or "very easy". That's how I interpret that document.

If you have not yet done so, [install Composer](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md#installation-linux-unix-osx).
Once you have, use the `create-project` command to create a new application:

```bash
$ composer create-project -sdev laminas/laminas-mvc-skeleton my-application
```

## Create a Controller

Laminas MVC has several base controller classes for you to start with:

- `AbstractActionController` matches routes to methods within this class.
  For example, if you had a route with the "list" action, the "listAction" method will be called.

- `AbstractRestfulController` determines the HTTP method from the request, and calls a method according to that.
  For example, a `POST` HTTP method will call the `update()` method in the class.

- You can also create custom controllers by implementing `Laminas\Stdlib\DispatchableInterface`.

> Learn more about controllers [here](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/controllers/).

Reviewer: The question I ask myself as a reader: Where is _here_?
I suggest something like:
```suggestion
Learn more about controllers [in the chapter on controllers](controllers.md).
```

(If a link points to a page in the same documentation aka [internal link](https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/writing-your-docs/#linking-to-pages) then MkDocs should create the URL.)

Reviewer 3: @froschdesign  url is not .md on docs website. This change will result in 404

Reviewer 3: Nevermind, I see your other comment about mkdocs rewriting url. I was not aware it could be done like that.

Reviewer: @Xerkus 
I'm sorry, that's my mistake. I should have paid attention to the order of the comments.

We will use the `AbstractActionController` base controller.
Create the file `src/Application/Controller/HelloController.php`.
Add the following code:

```php
<?php
namespace Application\Controller;

use Laminas\Mvc\Controller\AbstractActionController;
use Laminas\View\Model\ViewModel;

// Create an action controller.
class HelloController extends AbstractActionController
{
    // Define an action "world".
    public function worldAction()
    {
        // Get "message" from the query parameters.
        // In production code, it's a good idea to sanitize user input.
        $message = $this->params()->fromQuery('message', 'hello');

        // Pass variables to the view.
        return new ViewModel(['message' => $message]);
    }
}
```

By default, this controller will render the view script located in `view/application/hello/world.phtml`.
You can customize this behavior.

> Learn more about views [here](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-view/quick-start/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about views [in the laminas-view documentation](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-view/quick-start/).
```

## Create a View Script

Create the file `view/application/hello/world.phtml` and add the following code:

```php
<h1>Greetings!</h1>

<p>You said "<?php echo $this->escapeHtml($message) ?>".</p>
```

> ### Escaping output
>
> The method `escapeHtml()` is a [view helper](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-view/helpers/intro/), and it's designed to help mitigate XSS attacks.
> Never trust user input.

> > If you are at all uncertain about the source of a variable in your view, escape it using one of the view helpers, depending on the type of data.

Reviewer: For admonitions / call-outs we can use the following syntax:
```markdown
INFO: **Escaping output**
The method `escapeHtml()` is a [view helper](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-view/helpers/intro/), and it's designed to help mitigate XSS attacks.
Never trust user input.
If you are at all uncertain about the source of a variable in your view, escape it using one of the view helpers, depending on the type of data.
```
The admonitions are managed by the MkDocs [plugin markdown-callouts](https://oprypin.github.io/markdown-callouts/). (An [example](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-i18n/translator/events/#get-event-manager) can be found in the laminas-i18n documentation.)

Author: Good catch, thanks! I just kept what was there, but it looks like it was the old way of doing things.

## Create a Route

Routes determine which controller to call based on the URI and other information from the request.

> Configure a route and a controller in `config/module.config.php`:

Reviewer 3: This instruction is ambiguous since there is a root level `config/` folder and creating file there won't have an effect.

Suggestion could be for Application module config at `module/Application/config/module.config.php` or application wide configuration at `config/autoload/global.php`

Reviewer: The controller is added to the `Application` module, so the configuration of this module should be used. Otherwise we must explain why it is configured _outside_.

At the moment, there is also no information that the application module will be extended in this quick start.

Author: @Xerkus You're right, this is the correct path according to: https://github.com/laminas/laminas-mvc-skeleton/blob/2.0.x/module/Application/config/module.config.php

@froschdesign
I don't understand what you mean by this:

> there is also no information that the application module will be extended in this quick start

Reviewer: @afilina 
> I don't understand what you mean…

In the quick start, the information is missing that the module `Application` is modified or generally that it is a module.

        ],
    ],
    'controllers' => [
        // Tell the application how to instantiate our controller class
        'factories' => [
            Application\Controller\HelloController::class => Laminas\ServiceManager\Factory\InvokableFactory::class,
        ],
    ],
];
```

When the URI path of the request matches `/hello/world`, the specified controller and action will be used.

> The controller name must be present in the `controllers` list.

Reviewer 3: `controllers` is not a list.  This wording probably came from beta days from before service manager.

May be something like this:
```suggestion
The controller name must be registered in ControllerManager via configuration under `controllers` key. Learn more about ControllerManager configuration options [in the laminas-servicemanager documentation](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-servicemanager/configuring-the-service-manager/).
```

Reviewer: The `ControllerManager` is a new detail that needs to be explained. The laminas-servicemanager does not contain any informations about controllers or the `ControllerManager`. The manager is explained in "[Default Services](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/services/#factories)".
Perhaps we can omit this information about the `ControllerManager` from the quick start.

Reviewer 3: @froschdesign better alternative would be to add a linkable section about configuration to controller manager page, that would in turn link to service manager

Author: @Xerkus I am referring directly to the config just above this text, so I thought it was clear that I was referring to the "controllers" key. Perhaps I can phrase it like this:

```suggestion
The controller name must be present under the `controllers` key in the configuration.
```

Author: @froschdesign Last change request addressed above.

The associated class will then be instantiated and invoked.

> Learn more about routing [here](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-router/routing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn more about routing [in the laminas-router documentation](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-router/routing).
```

## Test it Out!

Create a new vhost pointing its document root to the `public` directory of your application, and fire it up in a browser.
You should see the default homepage template of [laminas-mvc-skeleton](https://github.com/laminas/laminas-mvc-skeleton).

> Append the path "/hello/world" to your URL and load the page.

Reviewer: The same as above:
```suggestion
Append the path `/hello/world` to your URL and load the page.
```

You should now get the following content:

```html
<h1>Greetings!</h1>

<p>You said "hello".</p>
```

> Append "?message=welcome" to your URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Append `?message=welcome` to your URL.
```

You should now get:

```html
<h1>Greetings!</h1>

<p>You said "welcome".</p>
```

Congratulations!
You've created your first Laminas MVC controller!

## Learn More

- [Creating custom modules](https://docs.laminas.dev/tutorials/getting-started/modules/)

> - [Controllers](https://docs.laminas.dev/laminas-mvc/controllers)

Reviewer: If a link points to a page in the same documentation (internal link) then MkDocs should create the URL:
```suggestion
- [Controllers](controllers.md)
```
https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/writing-your-docs/#linking-to-pages
